# HBMA

## ABSTRACT

Cardiovascular disease is one of the biggest health issues around the world. One of the major consequences of this is myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and arrhythmia. High BP puts strain on the heart and the arteries, increasing the probability of heart attack, dementia, stroke, and kidney diseases. Constant monitoring of the heartbeat is one of the ways to not only detect the possible problem that needs medical attention but also to everyday awareness of one's health condition. Moreover, various researchers show that home-based non-invasive sensors can be deployed for remote monitoring to reduce re-hospitalization of cardiac patients. Additionally, it is very hectic for anyone to always bring and maintain those monitoring devices outdoors. So  objective is to build a monitoring application that will continuously monitor heart rate to detect the unconsciousness of a person. This project details and abstract of a system that continuously monitors heart rate to detect the unconsciousness of a person and research on locating near hospitals to acquire emergency help speedily. Consistent data monitoring is done using a pulse sensor which will be stored in a NoSQL-type database feature supported in android called Firebase. This stored all real-time data in firebase and compare it with pre-set threshold value. Depending on the result obtained, emergency help goes to the hospital and the person's relative. Google API keys are used to locate nearby hospitals which results in getting quick emergency help to an unconscious person.
